(pulsing music)
- [Voiceover] The grain
market is very diverse.
Many people may not be
aware of it, but maize,
rice,
and wheat
are not the only
whole foods available
and suitable for their
greener lifestyle.
With the scientific name
Fagopyrum esculentum,
buckwheat is not a grass.
And despite its name,
it's not related to wheat.
It's a pseudo-cereal
more closely related
to sorrel, knotweed,
and rhubarb.
According to
archaeological evidence,
buckwheat is believed to
have been first cultivated
in Southeast Asia
around 6000 BC,
specifically in the
Tibetan plateaus
of the Yunnan region in China,
where crops like maize
and rice cannot thrive.
Buckwheat flourished in China
in the 5th and 6th centuries AD.
Buckwheat then travelled
from Northern China
to Europe during the Middle Ages
via the famous trading
route, the Silk Road.
And the Mongolian invasion
of Europe in the 13th century
further popularized the grain
all the way to Central Europe.
It is believed that
the Mongol troops
brought buckwheat with them
during their march to Europe
because it was a health food
that they could easily prepare,
even while on the road.
Because it was introduced
by non-Christians,
people in Bohemia
call it "pohanka"
from the Czech word
"pohan", meaning "pagan".
Along with its spread in Europe,
buckwheat was also eventually
introduced to India.
From Europe, it
sailed to the colonies
in North America in the 1600s,
but it didn't flourish
until the mid-1800s
when it became widely used
as livestock feed and flour.
There is also
archaeological proof
that buckwheat was
already cultivated
in Japan in the 8th century,
and that Emperor
Gensho ordered its
countrywide cultivation in 722.
Planting buckwheat is not
as demanding as other crops.
It thrives in low-nutrient,
drained, acidic soils,
and even in
elevations as high as
4000 meters above sea level.
It also doesn't require any
additional chemical fertilizers.
Adding nitrogen fertilizer
is not recommended
because it can reduce yield,
making buckwheat very
suitable for organic farming.
Buckwheat plants grow
up to four feet tall,
with alternating
heart-shaped leaves
that are two to
three inches long.
It's a short season crop,
taking only 12 weeks
for it to mature.
Here's a typical life
cycle of buckwheat.
Seedlings start to emerge three
to five days after sowing.
Leaves sprout during
the third week
and continue to grow
in the sixth week.
Flowers start to bloom
and the seed sets in
within the sixth
and seventh week.
The seed continues to
develop in the eighth week
and it finally matures
in the 12th week.
Aside from milling
buckwheat into flour,
it is also a favorite cover
and smother crop of farmers.
Buckwheat is used in soil
nutrition management,
erosion prevention,
and weed suppression.
But as the organic
lifestyle and diet trend
continues to rise,
buckwheat still has
a chance to show
more of its wonders
in food and nutrition.
Buckwheat is popularly
used in different countries
to nourish and protect
farm soil against weeds,
but its nutritional value also
deserves a closer inspection
to better appreciate what
else this grain can offer.
Like wheat, buckwheat is
packed with nutrients,
minerals, and vitamins.
Here's a basic
nutritional breakdown
of a hundred gram
serving of buckwheat.
It has very competitive
amounts of protein
at 13.25 grams,
and fiber at 10 grams.
It also has an impressive
lineup of amino acids,
including a significant
amount of lysine,
an amino acid deficient
in most grains.
Sufficient lysine levels
ensure that the body
effectively absorbs
and conserves calcium,
which makes it a very important
part of a child's diet
during his formative years.
It also promotes overall
muscle and bone health.
Together with another
amino acid arginine,
which is also
abundant in buckwheat,
it can aid in
repairing bone tissue
as well as synthesize
collagen for healthier
connective tissues,
cartilage, tendons, and skin.
People recovering from
injuries and operations
may benefit from these
muscle-building properties
of lysine and arginine
present in buckwheat.
Buckwheat also has
resistant starch.
Considered to be the third
kind of dietary fiber,
resistant starch is believed
to promote a healthy colon,
improve the body's
insulin sensitivity,
and induce satiety.
Its mineral composition is
as good as wheat and oats.
100 grams of buckwheat has
the following minerals.
18mg of calcium,
2.2mg of iron,
231mg of magnesium,
347mg of phosphorus,
460mg of potassium,
2.4mg of zinc,
1.1mg of copper,
1.3mg of manganese,
and 8.3mg of selenium.
Buckwheat's bioavailability
of zinc, copper,
and potassium is high,
meaning a large percentage
of these minerals
is effectively assimilated
into the system.
Also, its high levels of
phosphorus, magnesium,
iron, copper,
zinc, and manganese
is beneficial to people
suffering from anemia,
since these minerals contribute
in the formation of hemoglobin.
Buckwheat is also rich in
vitamins, especially B vitamins.
It has 0.1mg of thiamin,
0.4mg of riboflavin,
1.23mg of pantothenic acid,
7.02mg of niacin,
and 30 micrograms of folate.
These vitamins are
essential in maintaining
a healthy cardiovascular system
due to their abilities to
reduce cholesterol in the blood.
Together with the
amino acid arginine
these vitamins can
strengthen blood vessels
and improve blood circulation,
beneficial to people
prone to hypertension
and heart diseases.
Good blood circulation
is vital for the body's
different systems to
function properly.
Buckwheat is a reliable source
of a flavonoid called rutin.
Rutin has the ability to
fortify blood vessels,
arteries, and capillaries,
helping the body avoid
conditions such as
chronic venous insufficiency,
edema, hemorrhoids,
microangiopathy, and
other venous disorders.
Buckwheat's overall
nutritional profile
reads very beneficial to people
who are at risk of
contracting heart disease,
which only shows that this
ancient grain has more to it
than just warding
off weeds in farms.
Buckwheat, a tiny grain
for a healthy heart.
Buckwheat may have
originated in Asia,
but that didn't stop this
grain from integrating itself
in traditions and customs
of Western countries.
First, here are some of
buckwheat's involvements
in Asian culture.
For the Hindus, buckwheat is
an important part of their diet
during holy days of
fasting and abstinence.
During the fasting
days of the Ekadashi,
Janmashtami, Maha Shivaratri,
and Navaratri Festivals,
eating cereals such as wheat
and rice is prohibited.
Since buckwheat is
technically not a cereal,
Hindus can eat foods
prepared from buckwheat,
like kuttu ki puri, pancakes
made from buckwheat.
And kuttu pakoras,
fried potatoes
coated with buckwheat flour.
In China, Korea, and
especially in Japan,
buckwheat is famous for
being used in making noodles.
In Japan buckwheat flour
is the primary ingredient
in making traditional
soba noodles.
"Soba" is a direct translation
of "buckwheat" in Japanese.
During the Edo period which was
between 1603 and 1867,
people customarily ate soba
at the end of each month,
a tradition called
"Misoka-soba".
Misoka-soba was a thanksgiving
celebration by the Japanese,
having survived another
month in good health.
Today soba is a ceremonial
dish during New Year's Day.
This also originated
during the Edo period,
when people didn't typically
celebrate their birthdays.
Instead they all
regarded New Year
to be everyone's birthday,
and eating soba
during the New Year's
is both a sign of gratitude
and a wish for long life.
Now here is buckwheat's cultural
significance in the West.
In West Virginia, United States,
a three-day festival called
the Preston County
Buckwheat Festival
is celebrated every September.
It started during the latter
part of the Great Depression
when farmers in Preston
County believed that
buckwheat was the grain that
could revitalize their economy.
So in October 1938 at the
end of the harvesting season,
the locals organized the first
Preston County
Buckwheat Festival
where everyone enjoyed
different activities,
games, and a banquet
of buckwheat cakes.
Today there's also the
Buckwheat Royalty Pageant,
where a King Buckwheat and
Queen Ceres are crowned.
The Danish author Hans
Christian Andersen
took a particular
liking to buckwheat,
and used it to write a tale
entitled "The Buckwheat".
If you see a buckwheat
field blackened
as if it were set on
fire after a storm,
well according to the tale,
it's because it was
hit by lightning.
In the story the buckwheat
was a very proud plant.
Unlike the other grains, wheat,
rye,
barley,
oat, and corn,
which didn't mind bending
their stems towards the earth,
the buckwheat always
stood tall and proud.
One day a storm hit the fields.
The other grains
folded their leaves
and bowed their heads as
they waited the storm out,
but not the buckwheat.
Because of his pride,
he stood firmly
and even boldly
gazed at the skies,
where lightning flashed
across the heavens.
After the storm, the other
grains saw the buckwheat
laying low and burnt
down like a weed.
Different cultures may have
different uses for buckwheat,
but it will remain an
important crop today
and in the future.
Buckwheat did not experience
a cease in production
because of its important
role in livestock feeding
and soil and weed management.
However there was a
decline in cultivation
when nitrogen fertilizers
were introduced.
Maize and wheat
responded positively
to nitrogen fertilizers,
increasing yield and production,
while buckwheat didn't.
And so maize and wheat
became the farm favorites.
Thanks to the recent
green revolution
and organic food movement,
buckwheat can now
show the modern market
what else it can offer.
Based on the Food and
Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations,
the following countries
were the top three
producers of buckwheat in 2012.
Number one, China with
700,000 metric tons.
Number two, Poland with
94,421 metric tons.
And number three, Brazil
with 60,000 metric tons.
Other buckwheat producing
countries are Japan,
the United States,
and Russia.
As a cover crop or
green manure crop,
buckwheat helps farmers manage
the levels and range
of macronutrients
and micronutrients in the soil.
Buckwheat is plowed under
the soil where it decays
and nourishes the soil with
nitrogen and other minerals,
thus improving the overall
condition of the soil
for the next crops to grow.
Because buckwheat is
a short season crop,
it is also used
to suppress weeds.
Actually buckwheat has been used
to suppress weeds for
hundreds of years,
and that's why even US
Presidents George Washington
and Thomas Jefferson
corresponded with each other
about buckwheat's success
as a weed suppressant
in their respect farms.
Other interesting
non-food uses of buckwheat
are for pillows and as plaster.
Homeopathic pillows are often
filled with buckwheat hulls
as well as heating
and cooling packs
which are laced with
different relaxing scents.
Buckwheat can also be
processed into a special type
of plaster that draws
out retained water
from swollen areas of the body,
specially the abdomen.
Buckwheat flour is
mixed with hot water
to form a stiff dough.
This dough is then applied
on the swollen area
and secured by bandages
and left for four hours.
Two to three times
application is needed
before any effect is observed.
The consumption of buckwheat
is usually in the form of flour.
Buckwheat flour is dark because
even if it underwent milling
some hull fragments
are left behind.
Unlike wheat which can be
sold as pure wheat flour,
buckwheat flour is often
sold as a pancake mix.
In Asian countries
buckwheat kernels
are roasted and used as tea.
The darker the kernels
get during roasting,
the stronger the
flavor it will have.
Aside from tea,
buckwheat is also used
as a traditional
source of honey.
Buckwheat flowers are a
favorite of many pollinators.
Pure buckwheat honey
has a very dark color,
and has a distinct
strong flavor.
In India, aside from
its grain and straw
its leaves are also harvested
and eaten just like
any leafy vegetable.
Buckwheat may not be as
popular as maize and wheat,
but it seems to
have specific uses
that will allow it to
enjoy a stable standing
in the global grain industry.
Buckwheat can be enjoyed
in different ways.
Porridge and pancakes
are two of the basic
and widely used consumed dishes
made out of buckwheat
flour and groats.
The conventional
grain to water ratio
in cooking buckwheat
kernels is one is to two.
One cup kernel to
two cups of water.
Just put the kernels
and water in a pot
and bring it to a boil.
Once boiling, reduce
heat and let it simmer
for 10 to 20 minutes
or until tender.
Buckwheat kernels also
increase in volume when cooked,
so make sure to use a
big enough pot or pan.
Now in case you're
wondering what dishes
other than pancakes can be
prepared using buckwheat,
you can try these two recipes.
First, buckwheat
and mushrooms pilaf.
You will need one cup
of buckwheat groats,
two cups of vegetable broth,
40 grams dried wild mushroom mix
soaked in hot water,
one half teaspoon of
ground caraway seed,
one teaspoon of dried marjoram,
one teaspoon of salt,
one teaspoon of black pepper,
one teaspoon of garlic powder,
one small yellow onion,
and one tablespoon
of vegetable oil.
First soak the dried mushrooms
in hot water for 10 minutes.
Second, in a
saucepan heat the oil
and sauté the onion
until transparent.
Drain the mushrooms
and put them in the pan
with the onions and sauté
for another three minutes.
Put the buckwheat groats,
marjoram, caraway seeds,
garlic powder,
salt, black pepper,
and vegetable broth in the mix.
Make sure to stir well until
everything is combined.
Cook over medium heat uncovered
until the buckwheat
has absorbed the broth
or until it's tender.
Now for the other
recipe, buckwheat salad.
Just prepare the following.
Three quarters cup of
roasted buckwheat groats,
five cups of water,
one half teaspoon salt,
one half green bell pepper
chopped into half inch cubes,
one half red bell pepper
half a cucumber, peeled, seeded,
and chopped into
one half inch cubes,
three tablespoons
of chopped cilantro,
seven stalks of green
onion with scallions,
three quarters cup of carrot
chopped into half inch cubes,
and one third cup of
slivered almonds, toasted.
For the dressing you will need
three quarters tablespoon
of tamari soy sauce,
one and one half
tablespoons of lemon juice,
three tablespoons of olive oil,
a quarter teaspoon of salt,
two tablespoons
of ginger, minced,
and two tablespoons of
garlic, also minced.
First put the groats
in four cups of water
and bring it to a boil.
Then add half a teaspoon of
salt and cook for 15 minutes
or until the groats
are al dente.
Drain the groats in a colander,
rinse with cold
water and set aside.
Blanche the carrots
in one cup of water
for two to three minutes.
Remove from water, rinse with
cold water, then set aside.
Third, chop off the
tips of the green onions
and slice lengthwise.
And lastly, in a large
bowl toss together
the buckwheat groats, carrots,
red and green bell
peppers, cucumber,
cilantro, and the green onions.
Drizzle the dressing and garnish
with the almonds before serving.
Pancakes, porridge,
pilaf, or salads.
It doesn't matter
which you prefer,
as long as you get to enjoy
the many benefits of buckwheat.
Not just for your palate,
but for your health as well.
(pulsing music)